The Battle of Algiers was indeed a moving film. It highlighted the struggles and commaraderie of the revolutionaries of French Algeria in their struggle for independence and freedom from French colonial oppression. In addition to the artistic rendition of this historical period, the film also serves as an educational piece regarding various aspects of colonial rule. This is highlighted in three aspects of, namely, dispossession, domination and occupation(1). These three aspects within the context of colonialism, while differing in their presentation and methods across the world, are key components of a specific type of colonialism called settler colonialism(2). The first is dispossession, which is sometimes referred to as "legalized theft" or "land grabbing"(3), is the process by which land is "enclosed" for private use(4). The second aspect is domination, which involves taking over of social institutions of the native population and replacing them with that of the colonizer's in the aim of instituting cosmological violence(5). The third aspect is occupation, which essentially involves supplanting native populations in the colonized land, in a long term effort to administer and rule over the colonized population(6). While the revolutionaries in the Battle of Algiers were eventually rooted out, Algeria did eventually gain independence in 1962 after a bloody near decades long struggle(6). However, according to Franz Fanon, decolonization is not as simple as getting one's land back. The psychological deconstruction of colonial violence takes much longer and is an ongoing process(6) for reasons we will unravel shortly later.

Dispossession has its beginnings in 16th century Britain when, in the advent of newly invented industrial processes, such innovations brought about the incentive to "enclose" common land for the maximization of production. The Enclosure Act(7) was passed during this time to allow the legal transfer of common land into the hands of wealthy land owners who would reappropriate such plots for private industrial purposes. Such policies were designed for the benefit of the wealthy while the common folk were as a result transfered from agrarian subsistence to industrial wage work. In the colonial context, dispossession is carried out as an imperialistic, expansionist, and capitalist manuevre to secure offshore land resources. Legally mandated by the colonial metropolitan institutions with no consideration for the welfare of the colonized people who inhabit such lands, it is sometimes referred to also as "land grabbing"(8). Dispossession of land also serves as a prerequisite for the pursuit of colonialist objectives because it allows for a securitized area of real estate that is housed only by settler populations, and it also allows, with such populations, to manage the land and resources as a colonial property in the pursuit of imperialist tendencies. These places have been described by Fanon as frontiers of capitalist systems where colonial settlers assume great power(9). In the case of Algeria, conquered land was used for such purposes as manufacturing, mining and agricultural enterprises(10). Land enclosure also functions as form of population segregation to further racial hierarchy structures. In the movie, this is illustrated in scenes where FLN agents had to pass through gates in order to enter into French zones(11). The stark contrast between the settler zones and those of the natives within the movie, one of orderly urban and modern arrangements fashioned after that of the motherland, versus the bazaar-esque traditional tendencies of Muslim Casbah shows two very different worlds within one small space.   

Domination is the second step in the process of settler colonialism. When a native piece of land has been violently stolen from the local population and reappropriated effectively into a offshore stronghold of the metropolitan regime, it follows that the subsequent act is to continue this dispossession process by incursion into more lands beyond. This process unlike the first step which in the Algerian case involved extermination campaigns of up to 15% of the population(12), needs to inevitably deal with the issue of how to "govern" the rest of the 75%. Instead of driving the indigenous population further out, a method of "domination" is employed such that the aim to make them into subjects subordinate to the bidding of the ruling settler elite. This is the process of social indoctrination and brainwashing by replacing traditional local social institutions with those of the colonial masters(13). The aim to turn the oppressed into obedient subjects who will even develop "a belief in fatality [which removes] blame from the oppressor".(14). In the movie domination is seen in two aspects, one indirectly while the other a direct showcase. Even though the FLN were covert revolutionaries, in order to plan a terrorist attack in the French quarters, their agents had to dissociate themselves from traditional garb and fashion themselves in the likeness of the French so as to be able to pass inspections into the French quarter(15). As can be seen here, the French quarter is not just inhabited by the French, but also by those Algerians who have availed themselves to the French colonial cause. The other more direct depiction in the movie is near the end, where the French military have decided to round up a good portion of Algerians and in the process of doing so actively blares through the loud speaker telling them to give up on the FLN cause. The French authorities blatantly tell them to accept the way of French life for their own benefit and future.(16)

The final aspect of occupation is more of a result of the aforementioned two rather than a step in itself. With dispossession of native property and domination of social institutions, the colonizer has effectively achieved full occupation of the territory. At this point, the fate of the natives is completely controlled by the colonial masters, wholly in the physical and psychological sense. In the movie, one can see how Algeria is controlled in many ways of everyday life. While Algiers was divided into a French and Algerian zone, both areas are actively patrolled by French police and troops as can be seen in many parts of the movie. Social functions even within the Algerian zone is restricted, as in scenes showing children learning Islam and praying in secret houses(17), or the marriage of one of FLN's agents also inside a secret indoor area(18). Dissidents who are caught are actively apprehended and sent for the guillotine, while other petty criminals are sent to prison without trial(19). When the paratroopers are sent in, in an effort to root out the last remaining revolutionaries, no permits are required to enter into the Muslim zones to scour them out, in the process forcing the closure of shops, intruding into private spaces and damaging possessions in the process(20). 

The film was made in 19XX(21). And to this day, Algeria has been independent for XX years. However despite having regained their territorial and jurisdictional rights, the process of decolonization is still in process. Decolonization is not a straightforward linear process, but an active, on-going, daily practice toward self-determination(22). The reason behind this is mainly due to the cosmological violence inflicted during the days of colonial rule(23). Fairchild, as a summary of Fanon's work, has elucidated this in two parts, that of XX and XX(24). In essence, colonial rule not only involves territorial segregation between settler and native populations but also involves ideological segregation thereof as a process of intitutional domination(25). Fanon has made it very clear that the natives are referred to by the colonizers using "bestial" and "zoology" terms, describing natives along lines of biological discourse, equating them to no more than mere animals of study(26). There is also the belittling of the natives in the sort of holier-than-thou discourse that uses Manechiest dichotomy to place colonizers and the colonized on a good-vs-evil spectrum with the colonized as the "enbodiment of evil"(27). While such iterations were not exactly the same in Algeria, it is a fact that she was not technically a "colony" but treated as an actual annexed territory of France who hypocritically did not extend French citizenship to the native Algerians(28). It is perhaps also due to racial ideological indoctrination over the course of 132 years of French Algerian rule that even to this day, France is still regarded as the "promised land" for most of Algerians who wish to find a better economic future for themselves despite the institutional racism that still very much exists in French society today towards them(29). The other aspect is what Fairchild refers to as the irony of the post-colonial nationalist leadership taking after the likeness of their former colonial masters. Much alike the common folk who perhaps subconsciously have been instilled inferiority complexes as a result of colonial education, the ruling class ironically, as a result also of their Western education, also views their own common folk through somewhat  a similar lens much like their colonial masters(30). And in many post-colonial states it can be clearly seen that they fashion themselves after their former masters in their luxurious "accoutrements" while neglecting the needs of their compatriots and of nation building(31). So instead of constructive measures to rebuild their nation, governments are often corrupt, self-indulging, and wasting resources in attempts to secure absolute power within the leadership. Even up to as recent as the end of the last century, Algeria was still involved in a bloody civil war that lasted from 1991 to 2002(32). Such failures in nation building leads to an identity and cultural crisis. For it is the colonizers who founded the colonies on their notion of cultural superiority, Fanon states that it is the responsibility of the post colonial state to rediscover that lost identity in order to complete the process of self-determination and true liberation(33). However as easily as this is stated as a general principle, to this day, the idea of Algerian identity is still a complicated issue because of the complex historical ties with France that many Algerians cannot separate themselves from; namely, the Franco Algerian connection is almost an abusive blood relationship between persons of kinship(34). France may have colonized and brutally savaged Algeria, but at the same time Algerians make up the bulk of immigrants in France and who have all contributed to not just the making of modern France but also to the state treasury of Algeria through the money sent back home(35).

The Battle of Algiers is really only a movie about colonial occupation and the struggles of the revolutionary resistance. It educates the viewer on certain historical elements of colonialism such as dispossession, domination and occupation all of which causes lasting problems in a postcolonial era. However all hope is not lost, for today Algeria and the Algerian people have seemingly come out of the pit of their historical misfortune, and have started to embark on the true road to self-determination and national confidence. For example, in 2022, French President Emmanuel Macron has made an formal acknowledgment of the atrocities of French imperialism in Algeria(36). While not a formal apology, but it nevertheless is on the right path to reconciliation. And today, even though many still regard France as the fabled land of opportunity, there is a incoming wave of French Algerians who are returning to their ancestral homeland to contribute to the nascent economies of Algeria(37). Through such website as XXX, one can see Algeria is investing heavily in infrastructure projects and strategic industry initiatives that will poise itself possibly as a powerful player in the Mediterranean and African continent in the coming decade(38). It seems the Marxist coming of age that Franzt hoped for is not how things are progressing today, but Algeria seemingly has forged its own distinct path of self-discovery in this new century.