Jump to content

UK NEWS WEBSITE OF THE YEAR
Subscribe now
Free for one month
Log in
See all News
Roman emperor hailed as ‘black Briton’ – even though he wasn’t black
Lucius Septimius Severus has been included in teaching material and children’s books

Craig Simpson
30 October 2023 • 4:50pm

2004
Severus was also included on the front cover of a 2022 Puffin children’s book
A Roman emperor who appears on numerous lists of “black Britons” was not black.

Lucius Septimius Severus died on campaign in Britain in 211AD, and has also been named in overviews of “black British history” distributed by councils, teaching colleges, and children’s publishers, despite the emperor being of Middle Eastern and Italian descent.

The suggestion that Severus had black ancestry has been widely repeated, and the Museum of Cambridge this month hosted “Black History Lectures” that included a talk on the ancient ruler.

Advertisement
ADVERTISEMENT

By Advertising Partner
Sponsored Video
Last year, the Museum of London created a timeline outlining “Black Londoners through time”, which included the emperor.

Severus was also included on the front cover of a 2022 Puffin children’s book by This Morning presenter Alison Hammond, called Black In Time, which was billed as a history of “the most awesome black Britons”.

Some depictions of the emperor appear to encourage the confusion by showing him with dark skin, compared to the women alongside him.

However, this is typical of Roman portraiture, as tanned skin was considered a sign of masculine outdoor activity and vigour in the ancient world, contrasted to women who would stay indoors, and therefore were depicted as pale.

Local authorities have produced similar material, and Hammersmith and Fulham council has created a timeline of black British history that includes the emperor as its first entry.

Advertisement

Advertisement : 12 sec



These materials do not elaborate on him being a black man but instead qualify his identity as “African”, because he was born in a city on the coast of north Africa called Leptis Magna, now a Unesco site.

Mistake made in US
On the streaming service BBC Select, a documentary on Severus was included in a range of programmes for Black History Month 2023, which takes “a contemporary look at black history” and “celebrates icons from the past and present”.

It is understood the inclusion of the emperor on the BBC Select site was a mistake made during Black History Month in the US, and the programme has now been removed from the listings.

Others have made firmer claims to his ancestry, including Sheffield teacher training college the SCITT, which, in online guidance, published following Black Lives Matter protests asked: “Why don’t we teach our students about Septimius Severus, the black Roman emperor?”

In online learning resources for the Black Lives Matter-inspired charity Anti-Racist Cumbria, Severus is also included, along with the claim that he is “widely believed by historians to have been a black man”.

The ruler was born in the Roman city of Leptis Magna on the coast of what is Libya, and the emperor’s connection to Britain lies in the fact that he died near York in 211AD during a military campaign, ending a reign that began in 193AD.

His mother was of Roman descent, and his father’s ancestry was Carthaginian, a Semitic people with origins in the Middle East.

The ancient biographical collection Historia Augustus explains that Severus was disturbed by the sight of a black person on one occasion, taking his “ominous colour” as a bad omen while on campaign.

‘Silly and patronising’
The inclusion of the emperor in a range of educational material claiming him as a “black Briton”, despite the reality of his ancestry, has been criticised as being “patronising” for black people in the UK

Cambridge historian Prof Robert Tombs said: “Pretending that Britain had a centuries-old black population is silly and rather patronising.

“Apart from tiny numbers, our black population dates overwhelmingly from the last few decades. Why be ashamed of this? Claiming otherwise leads to embarrassing mistakes, as in the recent removal of a plaque to the ‘first black British woman’, who turned out to be from the eastern Mediterranean.

“For the Romans, ‘Africa’ was North Africa, before the arrival of the Arabs, and part of the Graeco-Roman world. Hence, the emperor Septimius Severus was an ‘African’ of Phoenician and Italian descent.”

Fellow historian Zareer Masani said: “The attempt to claim past figures as black is pathetic and unhistorical, referring to a time when the concept of racial identity was non-existent.”

The BBC and others have been contacted for comment.

News Headlines Newsletter
Sign up to receive news stories picked just for you

News Headlines Newsletter
Email address
Your email

Sign up
By creating a Telegraph account, you agree to our Terms and Conditions and our Privacy Policy.
Related Topics
Woke, BBC, Black Lives Matter
2004
The Telegraph values your comments but kindly requests all posts are on topic, constructive and respectful. Please review our commenting policy.

Show comments
More stories
Middle East crisis live: Lord Cameron has handed Hamas a 'prize', says Israeli minister
Image of Middle East crisis live: Lord Cameron has handed Hamas a 'prize', says Israeli minister
Why Volvo has pulled the plug on its electric car brand
Image of Why Volvo has pulled the plug on its electric car brand
Jonnie Irwin, presenter of Escape to the Country and A Place in the Sun, dies aged 50
Image of Jonnie Irwin, presenter of Escape to the Country and A Place in the Sun, dies aged 50
Prince Andrew and the Duchess of York: the next royal wedding?
Image of Prince Andrew and the Duchess of York: the next royal wedding?
Brianna Ghey: Killer tried to paint herself in 'worst possible light'
Image of Brianna Ghey: Killer tried to paint herself in 'worst possible light'
We know what ‘foo fighters’ that buzzed Second World War pilots really were, say scientists
Image of We know what ‘foo fighters’ that buzzed Second World War pilots really were, say scientists
More from News
 Live Middle East latest: US strikes pro-Iranian forces in Iraq and Syria after deadly drone attack
A US Army carry team moves a flag-draped transfer case containing the remains of US Army Sergeant Breonna Moffett, during a dignified transfer of fallen US service members, at Dover Air Force Base in Dover, Delaware
Asylum failures shame and endanger Britain
Police at the scene in Lessar Avenue near Clapham Common
Doodled hearts and lists of killers: inside the diaries of teenage murderer Scarlett Jenkinson
Scarlett Jenkinson Eddie Ratcliffe
Trump prosecutor Fani Willis admits relationship with lawyer leading Georgia prosecution
Fulton County District Attorney Fani Willis alongside Nathan Wade at a press conference  last year
Carl Weathers, actor who played Apollo Creed in Rocky, dies aged 76
Carl Weathers, actor who played Apollo Creed in Rocky, dies aged 76
Clapham chemical attack suspect ‘a good Muslim’ despite claim to have converted to Christianity
Abdul Shokoor Ezedi, the suspect in the Clapham alkaline substance attack, pictured on CCTV in a Tesco store in north London on Thursday
More from The Telegraph
France vs Ireland result: Six Nations defending champions look ominously good – live reaction
Image of France vs Ireland result: Six Nations defending champions look ominously good – live reaction
Greta Thunberg’s public order charge dropped as judge criticises police action
Image of Greta Thunberg’s public order charge dropped as judge criticises police action
28-year-old Lauren Hoeve died by euthanasia – to a degree, I understand her pain
Image of 28-year-old Lauren Hoeve died by euthanasia – to a degree, I understand her pain
Carl Weathers, actor who played Apollo Creed in Rocky, dies aged 76
Image of Carl Weathers, actor who played Apollo Creed in Rocky, dies aged 76
Royal Navy scraps major warship patrols around the Falklands
Image of Royal Navy scraps major warship patrols around the Falklands
I was the City’s youngest and highest earning trader – but it nearly killed me
Image of I was the City’s youngest and highest earning trader – but it nearly killed me
Try The Telegraph free

Cancel anytime.

START YOUR FREE TRIAL
Back to top 
Follow us on:
Help Centre
About us
Telegraph Extra
Reader Prints
Branded Content
Syndication and Commissioning
Guidelines
Privacy
Terms and Conditions
Advertising Terms
Fantasy Sport
UK Voucher Codes
Betting Offers
Modern Slavery
Tax Strategy
Broadband and Mobile Deals
The Chelsea Magazine Company
Newsletters
Download the Telegraph App
© Telegraph Media Group Limited 2024
